It's a really simple app. It *just* does this. It *just* does that. On
occassion a person or a small business will pitch me to build an app – a
simple app – for them. But what they don't see is that what they need is more
than *just* as simple app.

What these potential clients seem to miss is that the app is just the tip of
the iceberg. Yes, maybe the app itself is really simple. Maybe it's just a few
screens and a submit button. Or maybe it's just showing a bit of content that
updates occassionally. No big deal, right?

But it's what's under the water that makes their app not quite as simple as
they think. If the app is the tip of the iceberg, it's the backend system that
lurks unseen below the freezing water. It's the backend system that's doing
the work and providing the value.

Let's say a client wants an app that boils down to a simple publishing
platform; they *just* want to show some content that updates on occassion. For
this type of app, it's the backend system that handles what content to provide
to the app. It's the backend system that determines when to provide it the
app. It's the backend system that serves as a Content Management System that
allows the client – and only the client – to update the content. And if the
client wants to share that content on Twitter or Facebook so the app can "go
viral", well the system better have a way to share the content on a website
too. Now suddenly, we're looking at more than an app. We're looking at a
larger system, of which the app is only a small part.

Or let's say a client wants an app that collects data from users; they *just*
want a few form fields and a submit button. But it's the backend system that
deals with the submitted data. It's the backend system that stores the data.
It's the backend system that makes it available to users after they've entered
it. It's the backend system that determines how the data gets shared, and who
can see it. And if the user wants to see the data they entered, how will they
see it? A different app? A website? Again, the simple app is starting to look
like just a small part of a larger system.

These people *want* an app. But what these people *need* is a system. It's
really *just* that simple.
