It was a cold day in late March, 2014. Someone just trotted out the old
phrase, "It's 5 o'clock somewhere," and I immediately wondered _where_? That's
when I had the idea: there should be website that tells me where in the world
it's 5:00 pm.

![The its5.info banner. Or pick two random fonts and put them together.](images/its5/its5.svg "Stylized its5.info logo")

## For fun, not profit

The capitalist entrepreneur may immediately see a problem: a website like this
has almost no way to monetize. I saw it too, butÂ I forged on.

I thought that this would be a fun little project. _Editor's note: I like to
build web things. So for me, it would be fun. Your results may vary._

I still felt like I needed to justify the time I would spend on the project,
so I also convinced myself that the existence of the site would be fun for
others, and would provide a platform for me to learn.

## Joy to the World

I like bringing joy to people in my own little way. Software has the ability
to do that.

What if, when somebody mentions that it's 5 o'clock somewhere on Twitter, they
get told _where_ it's 5 o'clock? Most people would brush that off. But maybe
somebody might chuckle for a few seconds. Maybe somebody might smile at that
unexpected reply.

It would be pretty cool that, from across time and space, a robot that I write
could spread even the smallest bit of joy.

## Timezones, Twitter, and Mistakes, Oh My!

Personal projects are a chance to learn new things, try new ideas, and brush
up on old skills. They are also a chance to make as many mistakes as I want
without fear.

Timezones are fascinating. _Editor's note: again, your results may vary._ And
creating a website that deals with time all across the world would require a
lot of work with timezones. I thought I knew the ins and outs of timezones
pretty well, but this project would put that assumption to the test.

A large part of the project would also be the accompanying Twitter robot. So
this project would give me the chance to brush up on my Twitter API skills.
Skills, by the way, that I would need to use for real work soon, so that would
be a bonus.

And then there's just general knowledge and experience. Every project I do
helps me become a better developer. There's always value in that. They're also
a chance to try out new ideas. Spoiler alert: I have lots of _bad_ new ideas.
Having the chance to try them out on a personal project means I don't make the
same mistake in a project for a real, paying customer.

## So I did it

Education. Experience. Joy. It sounded worth it, so I did it. I worked over
lunches. I worked in the morning sometimes. And on a slightly-less-cold day in
mid May, 2014, [its5.info][its5] was launched.

[its5]: http://www.its5.info/
